{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17200\viewh12840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 BEMP publications
\f1\b0 \
Steinberg, K.A., K.D. Eichhorst, and J.A. Rudgers. 2021. Flood regime alters the abiotic correlates of riparian vegetation. Applied Vegetation Science 24(2). \
\
Steinberg, K.A., K.D. Eichhorst, and J.A. Rudgers. 2020. Riparian plant species differ in sensitivity to both the mean and variance in groundwater stores. Journal of Plant Ecology 13(5):621-632.\
\
Converse, R, D. Shaw, K. Eichhorst, and M. Leinhart. 2016. Bringing citizen monitoring into land management: a case study. Journal of Science Communication 15(03), A02.\
\
Gonz\'e1lez E, Sher AA, Anderson RM, Bay RF, Bean DW, Bissonnete GJ, Bourgeois B, Cooper DJ, Dohrenwend K, Eichhorst KD, El Waer H. Vegetation response to invasive Tamarix control in southwestern US rivers: a collaborative study including 416 sites. Ecological Applications. 2017 Sep;27(6):1789-804.\
\
Gonzalez, E., A.A. Sher, R.M. Anderson, R.F. Bay, D.W. Bean, G.J. Bissonnete, D.J. Cooper, K. Dohrenwend, K.D. Eichhorst, H. El Waer, D.K. Kennard, R. Harms-Weissinger, A.L. Henry, L.J. Makarick, S.M. Ostoja, L.V. Reynolds, W.W. Robinson, P.B. Shafroth, and E. Tabacchi. 2017. Secondary invasions of noxious weeds associated with control of invasive Tamarix are frequent, idiosyncratic and persistent. Biological Conservation 213: 106-114.\
\
BEMP. BEMPscience/bemp_data: BEMP Core Community Science Data - Riparian floodplain (Version v1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3697197\
\

\f0\b US Army Corps of Engineers use
\f1\b0 \
Burks-Copes KA, Webb AC, Engineer Research And Development Center Vicksburg Ms Environmental Lab. A Bosque Riparian Community Index Model for the Middle Rio Grande, Albuquerque, New Mexico: Model Documentation. US Army Engineer Research and Development Center, Environmental Laboratory; 2012 Sep 1.\
\
Coonrod J, Crawford C, Stormont J, LeJeune C, Pedro I. Investigating Groundwater/Surface Water Interaction at the Diversion Dam Site: Report Documentary 2007-2008. ERDC/CHL TR-11-1. Coastal and Hydraulic Laboratory (US); 2011 May 1.\
\
Stockton, Gail; Roark, D. Michael. 1999. Upper Rio Grande water operations model: A tool for enhanced system management. In: Finch, Deborah M.; Whitney, Jeffrey C.; Kelly, Jeffrey, F.; Loftin, Samuel R. Rio Grande ecosystems: linking land, water, and people: Toward a sustainable future for the Middle Rio Grande Basin. 1998 June 2-5; Albuquerque, NM. Proc. RMRS-P-7. Ogden, UT: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research Station. p. 61-67.\
\

\f0\b Bureau of Reclamation use
\f1\b0 \
Draft Environmental Assessment - Isleta Pueblo Bosque and Riverine Restoration Project, New\
Mexico, Upper Colorado Basin Region. July, 2020. \
\

\f0\b City of Albuquerque use
\f1\b0 \
Draft Environmental Assessment - City of Albuquerque, Rio Grande Bosque Wildfire Mitigation Project HMGP-5184-0004-NM, May 2022. U.S. Department of Homeland Security\
Federal Emergency Management Agency prepared by SWCA, Project No. 64870\
\
Draft proposal for data driven placement and depth of swales at the Montano BEMP site. For City of Albuquerque Open Space prepared by Bosque Ecosystem Monitoring Program. October 2020. \
\

\f0\b Forest Service use
\f1\b0 \
Najmi Y, Grogan S. Monitoring riparian restoration: a management perspective. USDA Forest Service Proceedings RMRS-P-42CD. 2006:177-80.\
\
Crawford CS, Umbreit NE. Restoration and Monitoring in the Middle Rio Grande Bosque: Current Status of. Rio Grande Ecosystems: Linking Land, Water, and People. 1999 Mar:158.\
\

\f0\b NM Interstate Stream Commission use
\f1\b0 \
MIKE SHE hydrologic model for the Middle Rio Grande, 2022. Pending full citation. \
\

\f0\b United States Geologic Survey use
\f1\b0 \
Travis, R.E., Wilkins, K.L., and Kephart, C.M., 2023, Assessing Escherichia coli and microbial source tracking markers in the Rio Grande in the South Valley, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 2020\'9621: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2023\'965019, 48 p., https://doi.org/10.3133/sir20235019.\
\

\f0\b Multi-agency use
\f1\b0 \
Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, Interstate Stream Commission. Upper Rio Grande Basin Water Operations Review \'96 Final Environmental Review Volume 2, 2007. BR-NM070161-FV2\
\

\f0\b Citing BEMP data
\f1\b0 \
Posthumus EE, Barnett L, Crimmins TM, Einerson J, Stancioff E, Warren PL. Building Local Resilience to Climate Change Through Citizen Science, Environmental Education and Decision-Making. Addressing Climate Change at the Community Level in the United States. 2018 Dec 12:50-64.\
\
Albrecht D, Lachapelle P. Local Adaptation to Climate Change. Addressing Climate Change at the Community Level in the United States. 2018 Dec 12.\
\
Collins SL. From the LongTerm Ecological Research Program to the National Science Foundation and Back. Long-Term Ecological Research: Changing the Nature of Scientists. 2016 Apr 12.\
\
Ellis LM, Crawford CS, Molles Jr MC. University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Flood Pulsing in Wetlands: Restoring the Natural Hydrological Balance. 2002 Oct 15:51.\
\
Doidge S, Julien P, Nelson P, Wohl E. Middle Rio Grande San Acacia Reach: Morphology and Silvery Minnow Habitat Analysis. 2019\
\
Dibner KA, Pandya R, National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Demographic Analyses of Citizen Science. InLearning Through Citizen Science: Enhancing Opportunities by Design 2018 Nov 1. National Academies Press (US).\
\
Gonzalez, E., A.A. Sher, R.M. Anderson, R.F. Bay, D.W. Bean, G.J. Bissonnete, D.J. Cooper, K. Dohrenwend, K.D. Eichhorst, H. El Waer, D.K. Kennard, R. Harms-Weissinger, A.L. Henry, L.J. Makarick, S.M. Ostoja, L.V. Reynolds, W.W. Robinson, P.B. Shafroth, and E. Tabacchi. 2017. Secondary invasions of noxious weeds associated with control of invasive Tamarix are frequent, idiosyncratic and persistent. Biological Conservation 213: 106-114.\
\
Gonz\'e1lez E, Felipe-Lucia MR, Bourgeois B, Boz B, Nilsson C, Palmer G, Sher AA. Integrative conservation of riparian zones. Biological Conservation. 2017 Jul 1;211:20-9.\
\
Weitkamp E. From planning to motivations: citizen science comes to life. JCOM: Journal of Science Communication. 2016 Jan 1;15(3).\
\
Baker, B. 2016. Explosive growth in low-cost technologies engage the public in research. BioScience 66:921-927.\
\
Abrahamson BL. Tracking changes in natural history collections utilization: A case study at the Museum of Southwestern Biology at the University of New Mexico. In Collection Forum 2015 (Vol. 29, No. 1-2, pp. 1-21). Department of Psychology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405: The Society for the Experimental Analysis of Behavior, Inc..\
\
Gallo ME, Porras-Alfaro A, Odenbach KJ, Sinsabaugh RL. Photoacceleration of plant litter decomposition in an arid environment. Soil Biology and Biochemistry. 2009 Jul 1;41(7):1433-41.\
\
Finch DM. Rio Grande ecosystems: linking land, water, and people: toward a sustainable future for the Middle Rio Grande Basin: June 2-5, 1998, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Rocky Mountain Research Station; 1999.\
\
Travis, R.E., K.L. Wilkins, and C.M. Kephart. 2023. Assessing Escherichia coli and Microbial Source Tracking Markers in the Rio Grande in the South Valley, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 2020-21. US Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2023-5019. 48 pgs. \
\

\f0\b Using BEMP methods
\f1\b0 \
Valencia SWCD. Rio Abajo Project 15-16 Pre-treatment Monitoring Report, 2015\
\
Ciudad SWCD and prepared by New Mexico Forest and Watershed Restoration Institute\
for the Greater Rio Grande Watershed Alliance. Tijeras Creek Project 17-08 Pre-treatment Monitoring Report, 2017\
\
}